# R-code-for-Mahabhujal

The clustering file contains the code for the data mining done . We used two algorithms namely:- K means and hierarchical clustering. Hierarchical clustering, also known as hierarchical cluster analysis, is an algorithm that groups similar objects into groups called clusters. The endpoint is a set of clusters, where each cluster is distinct from each other cluster, and the objects within each cluster are broadly similar to each other.K-means algorithm identifies k number of centroids, and then allocates every data point to the nearest cluster, while keeping the centroids as small as possible.

The Essemble file contains the main 3 models used for Machine learning:- Linear regression , Gradient boosting and Time series analysis.Linear Regression explains the relationship between one dependent variable and more than one independent variable. Here we use the caret library to import the Regression Model and use it directly. Dataset file is in the xlsx format, so we import the file using the import dataset field given in R studio.Then the data is split into Dependent and Independent variables. X is considered as Independent and Y is considered as Dependent.The dataset is designed such that we record user entries individually based on parameters like ID, lat, long, depth, elevation, constructionyear, rainmm , rainyear and usagelit . This makes our data consist of nine features.
Gradient boosting is a machine learning technique that produces a prediction model in the form of ensemble of weak prediction models , typically decision trees. Here we imported libraries gbm and xgboost which have inbuilt functions to carry out gradient boosting. Just like it was done for Linear regression, even here we split the dataset into test and train set with a split ratio of 0.7. 
The time series analysis of the dataset was used to plot graphs and make interpretations on the data provided. For this we just used certain inbuilt functions of provided by R studio.

In total we imported about 8-9 inbuilt libraries given by R that contain within them functions to ease up the process of machine learning and data mining. 
